# Autonomous-Machine-Learning

### Autonomous ML-based detection and identification of root cause for incidents in microservices running on EKS.




### What is Machine Learning?

Machine learning is a branch of artificial intelligence (AI) and computer science. It is  an important component of the growing field of data science. Through the use of statistical methods, algorithms are trained to make classifications or predictions, uncovering key insights within data mining projects. 


### How machine learning works?

According to the University of California-Berkeley, the learning system of a machine learning algorithm breaks out into three main parts.

- A Decision Process: In general, machine learning algorithms are used to make a prediction or classification. 

- An Error Function: It serves to evaluate the prediction of the model.

- An Model Optimization Process: If the model can fit better to the data points in the training set, then weights are adjusted to reduce the discrepancy between the known example and the model estimate.


In this project, I will demonstrate an alternative approach that uses the Zebrium machine learning (ML) platform to automatically find root cause in logs generated by an application deployed in Amazon EKS.


The project will cover:

- Installing the [Sock Shop](https://microservices-demo.github.io/) microservices demo app in an EKS cluster
- Installing Zebrium log collector
- Breaking the demo app (using a chaos engineering tool) and verifying that the Zebrium platform automatically finds the root cause.

#### Prerequisites

1. An active AWS account.
2. AWS CLI with the IAM user having admin permission or having all the permissions to execute the setup.
3. A free [Zebrium](http://www.zebrium.com/sign-up) trial account.

